all right everyone and welcome to do you Spanglish? today I have my friend Geneva here with me

hi 

thank you so much for joining me 

thank you

um todays topic is gunna be is your life over when you have a baby? uh so you know many of you dont know my friend Geneva so please introduce yourself and you know how long weve known each other and tell us you know your experience as a mother shes a mother now um after what three years of being a mother so I just want to kind of like pick your brain as to like life after you know after you become a mother

yeah, okay, well first of all thank you for having me

of course

super excited 

oh my gosh 

Uh so yeah like Cindy said Im a mom my daughter is going to be three in a few days now oh my gosh I cant believe that. Ay dios mio!

it feels like she literally was just born yesterday

yeah

like it feels like it was just yesterday I went to the hospital to see you

Oh my god I know

And here we are almost four years later

back when you could go to the hospital without like wearing a mask

oh my gosh for real

and doing all these different protocols

Oh my god now its just like hey send me a photo like cant even walk in there

I know casi casi like need to bring a candle and like te persinas and tu your little espíritu card 

right there

in your back pocket

Tu espíritu card aka your vaccination card at this point

Yes yes thats true Im gunna like staple uh it in one of those little saint cards to my vaccine card

Put a lil sage in the corner there you go. Um yes so tell me like tell me how has your life changed cuz again I met you in college so we were we were teens I mean we were still like what eighteen nineteen then we hit our twenties um we lived it up yo! Our life was lit! in college

Super

Um and here you are here we are in our mid-thirties and now youre a mom

I know!

Uh so my thing is I you know in my twenties I never wanted children you know I also nannied you know on the side so I had all this energy I was very excited I loved kids I and loved playing with kids I used to go to my side hustle and nanny and it used to be very enjoyable now here I am of course single and in my mid-thirties and Im just like agh like I dont know if I want kids my god not only am I exhausted for life but Im just I dont know I dont know if I have it in me anymore so 

yeah 

You know Im also being I may be a little selfish and I dont want to give up my life and what I have now to become a mother and I and then I see you and I come over and I play with little Zoella and Im just like oh my God maybe I do want it so just fill me in like hows it been being a mother?

yeah so I mean I guess the funny and ironic part is that you kind of were a mom before I was because you would always tell me your fun stories and horror stories of like oh my God this happened you know with this child and I dont even know what I would do if that was my kid and Im like ay dios mio like 

mejor te persinas

Yeah now I think youre like scaring me now 

Yes!

you know uh but I think its a mentality I think you have to be mentally prepared and ready and wanting it uh because if you dont and its okay if you dont you know cuz not everybody out there wants to be a parent and thats totally fine because those make the best tias in the world that its like give the parents

Girl!

a day or weekend or week off 

Oh, you know I-

Like vete con tu tia Cindy

I have like twenty nieces and nephews i dont know Im like tia Cindy for life

Yeah so I think first of all you definitely have to be you definitely have to want it like in your heart you for sure have to want it and if you dont you know dont let society trick you into thinking that, oh, you know or even the Latino culture thinking que oh pues eres latina how are you not? you know eres Mexican

Oh te estas poniendo viejita, ya!

You should be having kids by now, youre already in your mid thirties you know?

Yes and the latina mom

Debes de ser abuelita ya

And the latina moms are always like oh youre getting old mija

Yeah like

Te vas a poner viejita te estas quedando! Oh thats one thing oh goodness my grandma and my mother always being te estas quedando

Yeah

That means youre staying behind and its like oh my goodness

Yeah so I think definitely figure it out on your own without anybody elses decision whether you want to be your mom or not and then when you decide no then okay pies no youll just be the best tia ever, you know? or yes then I think at that point uh being a single mom versus having that support of a partner uh is I mean I luckily have my husband and he is the best husband ever and the best dad ever and I could not be as quote unquote sane as I am now 

Mh huh

because you know even having a child and having a partner and having all those other luxuries I guess you could say uh it does make it better but it still is hard uh so for sure you know you just got to kind of be in the right space to have a child and if you do have it that way and youre lucky enough to have it that way to be able to plan it and have a supportive partner and you know kind of check all those boxes uh

But-

I think in that point it makes it easy and fun and enjoyable at least it has for me 

okay, so when you- lets rewind a little

Uh huh

So you said you have to have the right partner obviously 

Yeah

So yes you were married you had the right partner but in the moment when you guys were did you guys ever sit down and really say okay its time? 

Yeah

like it is the right time

Yeah

did you?

I mean it was definitely a conversation that we had uh when like early kind of early-ish into our relationship cuz that was one thing that I always said I do want to be a mom 

Yeah, I remember 

Like yo se que en mi corazón de corazones

Tu siempre 

I want to be a mom like thats just one thing that I always thought to myself and so I always knew that I had to find a partner that wanted to also be a parent you know so that was like a decision early on and then we decided okay yeah like we both want kids okay great we can continue on in this relationship you know? Y luego you know nos casamos and after that we were just kind of like okay well Im I was like Im ready to be a mom like if youre ready to be a dad right away and he was like yeah and I mean thankfully you know were we both lived a very fun and adventurous and like lived out all of our wild crazy single-party college days

Right! Oh yeah been there

So we didnt feel like we were missing out on anything by like quickly having a child um and we were together like two years prior to being married um and then yeah we just kind of were like okay well lets do this like were never really gunna be ready

And thats the thing everyone says it everyones like that youre never really gunna to be ready 

yeah 

Uh but I mean you didnt feel a slight bit of selfishness in you like hmm 

I mean b b did

Do I want to give up those like late-night wine nights

yeah

Or do I really want to be up at 5 a.m. 

yeah 

everyday

yeah yeah I guess in a way like I I had those like small moments but then I realized you know what like Im getting older I mean really how long can i really be partying out all night you know and as it is estoy desvelada and then the next morning Im like ugh why did I do that

Uh huh 

like why did I do that to myself

Oh god the hangovers then were

Yes

terribles! Osea no, cant do it like we used to

Yeah

cant hang like we used to

Yeah, exactly so I think in that sense I was kind of like eh like I think Im ready for that next chapter you know Im ready for that next adventure I guess as like corny and blah as that sounds

No not corny at all I mean I feel like you know and again like I told you before in my twenties I was like no I dont want kids then in my thirties mid-thirties I jumped into a relationship and I thought he was the one and I was like you know what I do want children and I do blah blah here I am single again and now Im like uh I dont know if I really want them 

Yeah

Like was it was I doing it for him? 

Yeah 

Or was it just me cuz now here I am single again and all of sudden I snap back into this mentality of like im seflish like I dont know if I want to go through all of that

Yeah

I dont want to lose a minute of sleep

Yeah 

I dont want to like you know wake up like ten times in the middle of the night 

Yeah 

Uh and like you mentioned you know a good point that you mentioned was you have ton have a good partner


Yeah

My sister and her husband are a great team

Yeah 

And even then, my sisters like Cindy if you do not have the right partner if you do not have the help

Yeah 

It is impossible

Yeah

Because even as a good team that we are now, we struggle a little

Yeah 

We argue and we bicker over the smallest things because were so sleepless and were tried and we dont have a diet going we havent worked out in forever 

yeah 

The babys on a schedule so it is very very tough 

Yeah 

Um, what would you say if I mean I had this crazy idea of like what if I just like didnt need a man? What If I didnt need a partner and I just wanted to be a single mom because I do have friends who have Frozen their eggs or decided to do in vitro to do it on their own because they could

Yeah 
 
Im all for that but like you is that crazy of me? Is that insane?

I mean my initial thing is yes thats insane but then again you know theres single moms out there everywhere who are doing it you know

Right

And but i mean yeah I guess its just a decision of like okay are you having a kid just to have a kid or are you having a kid because you really want a kid and you want as crazy as it is its like you want a kid because i mean you see how my daughter is with me and like

ugh so sweet 

I mean someone who juts loves you unconditionally 

unconditionally 

Im like serio little kid you just love me so much

I know

that like its just

Y sabes que siempre te van a necesitar

its the cutest thing oh my god yes

You know cuz I feel like you and I are very similar too were not only are we latinas who like wanna cater

yeah 

But like were very like giving and loving 

yeah 

y tener alguien que es a mini you basically 

yeah 

que te te quiere y te necesita y que quiere jugar y todo eso

yeah

it just kind of also brings you back to like being a child yourself 

yeah 

like bringing your inner child out

Yeah. Ugh so I dont I mean thats thats such a tough question thats why I think that it really is up to the individual you know you gotta think about like what you want not in a relationship not like you at home by yourself like where do you see your future 

Uh huh

Do you see your future like just being the cool tia that can you know like go oh imma go visit my you know nieces and nephews

Thats what I am now. Just fyi were drinking wine now cheers to that

Cheers to that!

because I am that tia they came over 

yes 

Literally just played with her braider her hair went to her room I tried to put her to bed but I wasnt-

you snuggled 

really 

You did a good job

I did a little snuggling here and there and I walked right out and I was like wheres my wine

Yeah

that was the first thing I asked her I was like wheres my wine? I was so worried about my freaking wine glass 

I was like dont worry I put it in the fridge

She was like its in the fridge im like ugh thank god I nearly panicked on my fucking wine glass lets talk about being the cool tia right uh yes so I mean I dont know

Its a good thing

yeah 

I mean at least for myself again I I dont think it has changed me for the worse I think it has changed me for the better because you see the world in such a different light you know like now I dont think about just me and like going to a bar and partying and this and that you know im really thinking about future and you know where do I put myself business wise so to make sure that im setting up proper life for my daughter and hopefully potential future kids you know so it really just motivates you and pushes you to kind of be the best person you can cuz really at the end of the day youre their little role model 

Right right 

and oh my God que son tu chicle like theyre always with you

Oh tu little moquito!

Yes! i know cada cosita que haces tu ay lo hacen ellos and youre just like oh my god did I just do that and did she really just copy me right now? You know? So its just like I dont know

But does that add pressure? like do you feel sometimes feel pressure to like cuz sometimes Im I sit in my own head and I do suffer from like anxiety of some sort and sometimes I sit and go through my own head at night and I cant sleep cuz Im just overthinking life just me let alone having to be responsible for a child 

Girl yes

like I mean does that do you ever think of those things? 

Oh a million percent

Like oh my god the future the way the world is working like

Yes

you know all those disasters like you see in tv like does that ever get in your head

all the time every single second like I feel like as a mom at least for me Im like paranoid to the max now 

Si

But you just have to like play it cool cuz she can see you and

I mean como? Im like girl. Its its so hard though im like seriously I think Id just be such a paranoid mom. 

Oh yeah cada cosita 

Siempre diciendo like mijo vente a la casa a las cinco no quiero que- 

Oh yeah !

like I would track like im gunna definitely have a tracker on my child if I ever have a child

Oh me too!

On her phone

Same here

Or him

So I hope zoella doesnt hear this in the future cause I will track her phone 

Zoella if youre listening this was

yeah

like what? Ten years ago so dont worry the tracker is off by now youre probably in college

yeah or not

Or not not yet

yeah but I mean all of it I mean you went through all of it in your head but again you just kind of have to you know it it it It makes me really appreciate like my mom and all todas las costs que deice candy estabamos chiquitas que dont do this dont do that! You know, no estes afuera tarde

si doesnt it make you grateful?

all of it

Like when you think back?

A hundred percent

And its like but it also makes me sometimes wonder like if I do have a daughter that doesnt listen and she wants to this and she wants to get her way and I try to tell her like I know best for you been there done that and she doesnt want to listen and then when she is in her thirties shes gunna look back and be like Oh my mom was right like I told you its just like its a cycle

A cycle totally. Which is why like more of a reason for you to just be like your mama like theres no way around it like you will be your mom and thats just 

I know aveces me escucho y digo oh my god did I just sound like my mom?

Yes

Or like I see myself in the mirror I see myself buying certain things and im like oh my god thats what my mom used to do 

Yes oh totally that happens to me all the time I even call my mom and tell her that and shes like yeah now you know why you know ahora si entiendes lo que te decia and this and that im just like oh my god I know and like ok mom thats it

Like gracias a dios like gracias a dios que te enseñe gracias a dios que yo lo hice por ti 

Yeah 

Like okay mom

Yeah exactly

okay dad

Yeah so I mean its I I I think its been fun I mean shes gunna be three in a few days and I wouldnt change it for anything in the world my husband is even like you know that night that it is crazy and frustrating and you know sleep training and you know the nights of teething in just all the craziness that has happened and my husband would look at me like see you still want to have another one like and im like yes I know Im crazy but I do 

Loca loca

I know

Like seriously its like you have to start from scratch again you start from zero again with a new child as its getting easier with your current child 

I know yeah the best part too is that I get to teach not only my daughter Spanish or Spanglish but my husband Spanglish

Okay so that literally was my next question I was gunna say. So how do you does that work here? Because Steven is like es un super sea es un americano huero to the max

Yeah

Osea y aquí tienes a geniva which is super latina cocina mexicano todo like you know how does that work here does just zoella speak English does she speak spanish in the home? Like how do you go about the language?

Yeah she speaks mainly English but I kind of throw in a lot of little words here and there in spans and then I figure as she grows older Imgunna kind of put them all in a sentence so that she can understand like okay shes putting these three words together and now shes at her first like Spanish sentence you know and pretty much the same thing happens with Steven

Ser la maestro para los dos

Like okay, sientense for spanish class

They both have a notebook a chalkboard right here 

Good evening kids 

La muchacha de Manzana 

Yeah

La escuela

Yeah but its pretty much just that because I mean the nice part I that you do go at such a slow pace with your child its kind of nice because then Steven gets to learn at a slow pace and like he you know like when you braided Zoeys hair earlier I was like your trenzas your trenzas! And shes like looking at them and its like

I know

And so then I tell Steven im like look go show daddy your trenzas. So its you know little things like that where you know kind of take teach you words like that just so that she understands old you know trenzas are my braids like I see that

Youre right

Cause the word braid she will thats such a easy word that she will learn in English

Eventually I mean listen theyre in this entire English bubble at school like lets keep it Spanish in the in the home

Yeah and also the important part of of choosing her preschool was that they were also bilingual and the teachers there are bilingual and when we first uh did the tour there I was talking to her in Spanglish and I told the teacher I was like oh we speak Spanglish at home or you know were bilingual and shes like oh good me too so thats perfect I was like oh great so its nice because zoella can go to school if she says like oh my pansita hurts

Aw

You know they know what that is theyre not gunna call like excuse me mam wh 

whats a pansita

what is a pansita did you leave it in her backpack?

Where can- can we does target have pansitas, they call cvs hi yes you have a pansita? Like im trying to google pansita up but not quite understanding what size she needs 

what kind of pansita

Yes its kind of nice you know that school is also a big part so I feel like if you are gunna do bilingual or some sort of English you know you just kinda have to have everyone around you on the same page like my parents are on the same page my sister 

Right

and all of our family is on the same page so its kind of nice that her school is also on the same page so I can just continue to do what were doing and you know its working so far so 

Right 

thats kind of nice

Oh thats great um does he know any Spanish words or like does he try to speak to her in Spanish 


He does uh but its mainly just whatever weve already taught her words like body parts like cabecita pansita patita you know we still do all the -itas cause you know were Mexican and that doesnt stop until theyre like fifty two cause like tomasito and hes like an eighty year old man 

Oh my god thats so true! Carlitos and like im like my cousin Carlitos is an

Hes like four hundred pounds dude

My cousin Carlitos 

He walks in

Is like forty seven

Yeah

Old A F and youre calling him Carlitos?

Exactly

Every time my grandma called me out on it shes like Carlitos?! Im like oh grandma dont go there I know

Yeah so yeah I mean we kind of started there like all the body parts and then um colors and shapes which is kind of basically the same stuff that she learned in preschool just teaching it in Spanish so that she understands oh okay well this is triangle or this is red and you know this is Spanish this is how you say it in Spanish and I mean I feel like she picks it up pretty easily I mean I think shell kind of generally say the word in English first before Spanish but then I kind of reiterate it again and like oh you know rojo! or this and that

And her brain is such a Sponge right now

Totally

Like at this age their brains are such sponges that theyll shell easily pick everything 

Yeah exactly and especially when you have a partner who is also good to learn that is a big part too you know which I mean its good for him too because then he doesnt have any language barrier with her and I mean really come on Spanish you know its everywhere 

Its everywhere 

Its kind of silly to not want to speak Spanish 

Exactly um and I remember when I used to nanny back in the day like I used to Nanny and I remember the parents coming to me being like hey can you like um

Yeah thats true

and all the kids who I which I nannied theyre all white theyre all like American white and they were like 

Can you talk

Hola señora Cindy puedes hablar.

Misses Cindy

Yeah, no I would come and like and they knew I spoke Spanish and they would be like oh can you try teaching or speaking to my child in spanish like talking to them in Spanish

Yeah

And youre like my daily rate just went up by like ten dollars no problemo! No problemo señor y señora. Um so I did like I would try it I did I would try to just like slowly be like hey like you know so and so say this 

Yeah 

You know say repeat after me. And they would look at me with this stank face and be like I dont want to say that or like no I dont Im good

Yeah and then just keep on moving like okay I tried sorry 

Yeah

Sorry thats it zero y aveces los ninos también son desinteresados 

Yeah

Especialmente si no es el first langauge oh

Nunca han hecho el uh idioma en en la casa 

En la casa es otra cosa once they learn even if they learn it for or theyve been practicing for years si no practican en la casa or with friends o su roommate o quien sea forget it se les va!

Uh huh

El languaje if you dont practice it, it goes 

Yeah

you really need to practice

Yeah and even like of Stevens uh cousins nieces and nephews their parents have them in Spanish classes and so whenever we go on vacation they see us there always like talk to you know talk to you guys can talk in Spanish you guys can talk in Spanish again which is totally fine by me

Right

I dont take it like in a bad way at all 

Yeah 

because their parents are all white 

Right

So at least theyre making that effort and they understand The Importance of speaking spanish not only Being bilingual but speaking spanish, you know? And theyre from Tennessee Ohio Michigan so nowhere near the like amount of people like theyre inter interact with the amount of people that speak Spanish here

Right

So Im like oh yeah totally lets go for it rojo! Verde! You know Amarillo!

Negro brinca abajo! Para arriba! El vino donde esta mi vaso?

Yeah and the good thing is that they dont know what im saying so im just like oh yeah you know

Repeat after me

Playa sofa bebe

Youre like si si o no no? 

Yeah 

They like si si, ah bueno bueno

Yeah youre just saying all these random words and like 

Yeah! You know its also so funny to me that sometimes like some people you have those people who are like agh you speak Spanish oh my god great and its such like an interesting fact about you and then you have those people who unfortunately there are still people in the world who are like ugh like take that somewhere else 

Yeah

You know? So its like so inter-

Like this is America 

Right and its like I mean you cant just say America cause theres Latin America 

Yeah, Like first of all

north America South America

Dont even get me started on where we started as a country

Right, dont even get me started on the americas that is a whole other episode

Yeah

But yes, just taking it back to what I was saying its very interesting that some people really do appreciate the Spanish language and you know that makes you just that much more interesting 

totally 

You know?

Yeah and also like a valuable you know? because now youre just like oh you speak Spanish great you know youre always kind of like that little party favor thats like if something happens like oh wait! We got a Spanish-speaking person here

Uh huh, translate pero no solo eso like I said in my previous episode y como hable con Melissa le digo osea, cuando te encuentras a un latino and you can vibe in spanish

Yeah 

Its like or not even a latino it can be a white person an asian person 

Yeah

It doesnt matter who you are but if you speak fluent Spanish and if you could connect in that language theres a Vibe 

yeah

Immediately spanglish or Spanish guess what its vibe

Yeah exactly and its funny because what Ive noticed is going to like Delaware you know places that are predominantly white encuentras un latino who you know is probably a waiter or somewhere in the kitchen you dont cuz all latinos are everywhere in the kitchen doesnt matter if its Chinese food Indian food whatever kind of food youre always gunna find a latino in the kitchen

Its so true! Oh my god

I know its the funniest thing

I noticed that too! que raro!

I know

Im always like wait wait this is sushi and you got like a bunch of Mexicans en la cocina im like ok wait what happened 

Exactly exactly but then its kinda nice cuz its like if you you know like me I need lemon everywhere I go I need more lemon so ill like walk up to the counter like oh oh me puede dar un poquito Limon? Theyre like oh si! Claro Claro Claro! Casi casi me traen todo el arbor you know theyll just cater to you and youre just like yeah and then you come back to the table like I got you know 

The seeds itll grow in like a year watering it and youre like oh 

But in a dolly theyre bringing out the entire lemon tree and so everyones like oh my god how did you pull that off? And im just like spanish

Yeah exactly! Im like spanish thats your spanish card your vaccine card like what do you mean 

I got my vaccine card I have my Spanish card spanglish card 

Yeah 

Um but yeah its really exciting and im happy and im so happy that youre really focusing on like teaching zoella spanish 

Spanish 

Cause thats gunna be such an asset for her 

For sure 

And you know its just its such a beautiful thing 

Yeah and its so important I mean you know like our culture its important because she is of a different generation Lord knows what that generation is going to look like in 20 years 

Oh god dont get me started 

Con instagram y cosas así 

Oh y eon es tambien otro capitulo que voy a hablar en el futuro but its a whole other episode about social media 

So im like alright let me at least throw some cultura into your life cause I dont know whats gunna happen with instagram. Once instagram gets a hold of you

Right? Its like Jesus Christ persinate

Seriously

En el nombre del padre del hijo el Espíritu Santo

I know im gunna have to you know put little crosses all over her clothes or something

Your like wedding her every morning with like holy water 

Sheesh

La bendicion 

La bendicion 

Yeah but yeah its great I I love it its motherhood you know has been great for me its been you know pregnancy I loved it I mean of course its hard just like with anything you know it like coming up in a world as a latina of course its hard but you gotta just love you embrace it you embrace all of the ups and downs and I just feel like you know you just got to always see the positive 

Youre always such a happy- you also you were a very happy pregnant 

Yes 

You were excited about your pregnancy you were excited being pregnant 

Yeah 

you were excited giving birth

Yeah 

And now youre still excited about being a mother!

I know and I had a high risk pregnancy!

I know I remember you telling me


I had I had tons of things to be freaked out about 

You did

Its not like I had the like easiest pregnancy where I just like boop you know popped out the baby no problem full make up

Serio

Nothing like that you know 

Osea te dije-

There were tons of things that I could have been worried about 


A ti te dijeron que en el hospital te tenías que quedar when you went for a check up so it wasnt even like you were planning on getting your nails done you were like-

Yes Im over here thinking imma be over here instagram cute, no. My nails ill show you the pictures if you dont remember 

I do remember 

they were like halfway grown out

Cuz I remember the story

Oh my god 

So so you did, you had a difficult pregnancy I re- I mean no birth like a delivery

Yeah yeah yeah

And I remember the stories and honestly my sister same thing had a horrible delivering story and I just my friend Katie same thing

Yeah

My friend Sandra brisy I mean todo el mundo tenia un horrible birth- like a delivery story and im just like do I want that?

Yeah
 
I mean am I really about to go through all that for a child 

yeah 

Which is gunna keep me up all night?

Yeah 

and then on top of that Im spending all this money on the child its so expensive to have a child 

Yes girl I think I ran all the Disney passes looking at the 

As you as you just told me I just bought three Disney passes I was like what

Y un globo de diez dólares y popcorn de veinte dólares 

A water de coho dollars

I know

Like you got a Dasani for echo dólares? Girl 

Tiene el mickey tiene el ratonsito 

Yeah seriously es que tiene es que es de Disneyland water

Mickey lo bendicio 

Mickey le dio la bendición ósea no

Yeah so I mean again I think its all just you know you gotta just be ready for it and you gotta decide whether thats

Right 

thats the kind of you know future that you want 

And life

And its totally fine if its not

its a lifestyle

Oh for sure! Its a lifestyle change for sure

I mean its a whole change youre just you know youre not the same but in this case you are a better you you are a happier you youre this is you this is like what you wanted and you got it and youre so happy and Im so happy for you and you have such a beautiful and happy child like Zoellas amazing your little bubs

Yeah yeah but its definitely a new chapter that you kind of have to also find yourself you know you it was it was it was a struggle right after I had her and I could totally see how women can fall into postpartum depression thankfully I never did but I could see where I was like whoa thats where thats how quickly someone can go over the line like I I saw that like in me and I was like woah woah woah woah woah like I have to just think positive thoughts and not think of all the negative stuff thats happening in the world but just think okay lets focus on what I can control and what I can control at the moment is breastfeeding my daughter so thats what were gunna talk about right now

Yeah, y sabes que? Its so funny porque cuando yo cuando le dije a mi mama when Jenni was pregnant my sister Jennifer was pregnant we told my mom and we told my dad y nosotros estabamos hablandole a mi mama y le dijimos oh you know like you know postpartum depression and my mom looked at us and kind of laughed and was like whats that? osea que es eso? eso no existse like it doesnt exist, osea, what?

cuando te vuelvas loca nomas te tomas un tequilitote

Yeah y you know ahi te quedas! Or basically tough it out you know tough it out it is what it is like so- I dont think that also in the latin culture like the old school latin culture and the latin mentality postpartum wasnt a thing it was just like a eh you had a baby youre sad and youre tired deal with it

Yeah pretty much

Get some coffee go take a nap do the laundry get back in the saddle and ride because at this point its like what? Postpartum
What? There was not time no thing no nothing 

Which is probably why parents are so tough you know I mean they grew up with not being able to diagnose themselves with stuff 

No

they just had to deal with it

They had to deal with it 

And they didnt know what to call it 

No!

or to probably describe it

Nothing

But they were just like okay pues me duermo

Me duermo!

Deja commerce un chocolate

Me calmo or let me call my cousin or like la prima Tita

Yeah

Or like whoever you know like, or cook

Yeah

Or you cook and you vent or you shop pero mental osea si eso de mental health and like postpartum depression osea como que no existia. I remember bringing it up to my mom and she kind of laughed about it and I was like what? Like its a thing 

Yeah 

And now again you said you can see how people can easily turn the corner very quickly same with my sister and now that she had you know the baby I go over sometimes and I see the tiredness the no time for anything and I and I see her mood change at times and I can easily see how very quickly again people can turn the corner and be like oh! depression

Yeah yeah for sure so its definitely um something thats you know not to be afraid of its just good to know know that that is there and that could be a possibility and just be aware of yourself in your feelings you know and thats thats probably the most important part you know 

Just be aware

Be self aware, yeah

Self aware self-awareness um and be also willing to handle it and not ignore it

and to talk

Exactly 

Communicate- 

Communicate

With your partner with your friends siblings parents anybody another like parent on the Instagram like whatever way that you find a connection with someone just be like are you feeling weird like this dude cuz Im kind of feeling weird like oh my God me too youd be surprised how quickly someone will be like oh my god! Me too I felt the same way or you know like lets talk about it Ill come over to your house maybe all you need is a little adult interaction 

Right that too youre always like blah blah goo goo gah gah for- you can only do that goo goo gah gah ha ha ha peek a boo for so long

Before I go crazy

Before you go crazy before your like I need a drink I need to talk like

a normal person

Yeah, with another adult like lets go

Pump and dump

Basically pump and dump give me the strength give me the strips. whoo! Bueno Geneva at least I know now cuando if or when este lista si es que algun dia estoy lista 

Yes

I can come to you

Aqui estoy 

A preguntarte todo

Aqui estoy te ayudo, yes,

Or just borrow it all

Yes, you got it

Maybe by the time I have kids Zoella will be grown enough to be her their nanny 

Oh is that- free baby sister

baby sitter! 

And then you and I can go party

There you go were like -- 

Yeah

alright well thank you so much for coming on

Of course

It was great to having great to chat with you so cheers to this mama talk and congrats on zoella she is a beautiful baby um and alright chicos y chicas stay tuned for la proxima spanglish conversation, adios!
s
Adios!